>> Hey, Charlie.
Welcome to Talk Python To Me.
>> Hi, Michael.
>> Great to have you here.
We have corresponded back and forth about security things.
And now, are you here to scare us?
Is that what's going to happen?
>> It's going to seem that way.
There are threats everywhere, especially
when you start looking.
And that's the problem.
You look, you'll find them.
And if you're not looking, you might get affected
without even knowing it.
>> Yeah, but that's true.
But we're also going to come with some tools and techniques
and tips on how to avoid security
problems with your Python code.
>> Yes, absolutely.
>> Yeah, I think it's especially concerning--
that certainly catches my attention--
that if you mess with somebody's software,
like the software builders, the developers,
it gets shipped to however many users
are on the other side of that equation.
It's not like I just took over some teenager's gaming PC,
and now what can I do?
It's like, I took over--
name your big web app, and now we're
going to start shipping some stuff around.
All right, that's where the multiplicative aspect of this
gets more concerning than just standard personal computer
safety, right?
>> Oh, absolutely.
A single developer can have very broad impact.
Maybe they publish one package, but that one package
could be included in hundreds, thousands of other packages
as a dependency.
And then everyone using those packages could be affected,
whether the code is good and works as intended
or poorly written and has bugs and vulnerabilities.
>> Yeah, this is--
>> And it's malicious.
>> It's not to say there's any chance of there
being a problem with Pydantic.
But just to make your point, if you go to Pydantic or Request
or something like that, a lot of these have used by projects,
right?
And this Pydantic is used by 315,000 people--
not people, software projects that themselves have users,
right?
And so that's the kind of stuff that I'm
thinking about when I said that multiplicative effect, right?
It's a big multiplier, not just a couple.
>> Oh, yeah.
Yeah, for sure.
>> Yeah.
Now, before we dive into our main topic, of course,
tell people a bit about yourself.
>> Hi, well, my name is Charles Coggins.
I usually go by Charlie.
And I'm a Python developer.
I'm a software developer, but not
through the traditional sense.
I don't have a computer science degree.
I didn't come to this straight out of school.
I got my first taste of programming long enough ago,
back in the '80s, in 1987.
My dad got a computer for us.
And I was messing around on there with some games,
always with games, right?
At the time, it was basic.
It was this bowling game that my brother and I would play.
And I saw that I could look at the code.
I could look at the source.
And I went in there and modified it a bit
to make it so that I would always win whenever I played
them.
>> How long did it take him to catch on?
>> Oh, he figured out pretty quickly.
And he was in there, too, changing ball speed
and how often he could get a gutter or make him get a gutter.
But yeah, I took a class or two in high school and college.
But I was an electrical engineering major.
And then I went to work for the government,
doing something that wasn't even really that.
So I spent 10 years working for the government
before they stood up the US Cyber Command
and decided or figured out that they
needed to hire 6,000 new developers to fill
the positions.
And there weren't that many available in the industry,
let alone those who could pass the clearances
and work in that environment.
So they looked to people already working in the government.
And I raised my hand.
I said, yes, yes, I want to cross-train.
I'll be a developer.
And so they trained me.
>> Excellent.
What did they teach you for language in that program?
>> We started with C, C++.
And then there was some Python.
So I went through a couple of boot camps
and a lot of self-learning, self-teaching.
>> Python's the one that really clicked for me.
It just made sense in my head.
>> Yeah, of course.
If you're learning to do cybersecurity stuff,
a lot of times I'd be happy to tell people,
ah, you don't really need to learn C or Rust or Java.
If you just know Python, you're probably 90% of the time
golden.
But if you're trying to do cybersecurity, a lot of times
it's about the machine-level stuff, right?
Understanding things like C and pointers and buffer overflows
and all of that kind of stuff is where you actually
need to be.
>> And they taught us all that as well.
In fact, we learned assembly language as well.
And that one really didn't fit in my brain.
>> You're like, I want to become an assembly language programmer.
>> I mean, yeah, that's a whole different brand.
>> That's a whole different breed.
>> Yeah, it sure is.
And it used to be--
I remember when I first got into programming,
I was doing some C, C++.
And inline assembly was something people
would do a lot to optimize.
A lot like people might do Cython or Numba or something
like that to make Python fast.
We'll find this little part, and we'll rewrite it in this way.
And be like, we're just going to do inline assembly.
I'm like, that just doesn't seem like it's worthwhile.
I don't need that much performance.
We're going to not do that.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> Fun.
So now you're working at Phylum.
Is it Python focused or just software security?
>> It's not Python focused.
In fact, the company primarily develops with Rust,
as you were mentioning.
Yeah, we've got some excellent Rust developers
at our company.
And I think that's what's attracted a lot of them
is that that is the primary language we use.
But we also have some elements in Python.
And when I came on board, I got assigned
to work on our integrations.
So like GitHub integrations, GitLab, pre-commit hooks,
things like that.
And so I was able to architect it the way I thought best.
And because I love Python, I made it all in Python
and exposed it through Docker containers.
>> Are you doing direct integration with Rust, like Py03?
Or is it more issuing commands out?
>> The Rust elements that our company works on,
like our API, the command line interface,
a lot of the back end, it's just written straight Rust.
And then the Python is just plain Python.
There's no interface between the two, really.
>> Yeah, OK, consuming APIs and Docker containers
and stuff like that.
>> Right, right, right.
Although I am interested in the Py03.
And I think there's room to bridge the two
languages at our company.
>> I mean, for sure, people are adopting Rust
for the performance foundations of Python.
It's pretty interesting.
>> Yeah, yeah.
I've been at the company almost two years now.
I keep saying it's what I'm going to learn next, is Rust.
And I felt like I would just kind of absorb it
by going through code reviews and people on my team.
It hasn't happened yet.
I can kind of understand what's going on by reading it.
But I just-- yeah, I need to jump in.
>> Findef, OK, got it.
Those are the same.
OK, got it.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> No, it's interesting.
Well, we're not here to talk about Rust.
Although I do think it's becoming
one of those things that is sort of--
if you need to be a little one level deeper in the Python
space, that used to be C. And now I
think it's pretty solidly moving to be Rust.
There's a lot of popular things, identic, for example,
I pulled up earlier, where that's the foundation.
But that also seems to be where the momentum is.
>> Yeah, the oxidation of Python libraries is a real thing.
I mean, look at Ruff.
>> Yeah, Ruff.
I just heard about Granian, I think it was,
which is a new--
similar to G-Unicorn.
And MicroWSGI is a Rust-based async server.
It goes on and on.
Awesome.
All right, well, let's talk about software security,
though.
We touched on it a little bit with the multiplicative aspect
of why software developers should care.
But maybe let's start with some ways
in which viruses might get on your computer
from a software perspective, not from like, oh, you know,
I found this cool app on BitTorrent.
Normally it's paid, but this one's free.
It's like, maybe don't install that.
But not that kind of advice, right?
But specifically for software developers.
>> Right, right.
So for software developers, I think the primary vector
for malicious code running in your environment,
or really any developer environment along the way--
doesn't just have to be your system, it could be your CI/CD
servers, your runners--
is going to be software dependencies,
third-party code, right?
Code from strangers on the internet, right?
That's really what it boils down to.
>> Charlie, they're just here to help out.
They're just giving you the code to help out.
They have no bad intentions.
>> Right, right.
>> Except for that one.
That one over there, don't take their code.
>> Yeah, and it's hard to tell what's good, what's bad.
And I think we all rely on third-party code.
I mean, I think it's a rare company, rare project that
writes everything from scratch on their own
without any dependencies.
>> Yeah.
>> So that's a vector, for sure, is
allowing code from strangers on the internet to run.
I think the name of the game for attackers and threat actors
is arbitrary code execution.
That's the key phrase, arbitrary code execution.
If I can get arbitrary code execution
with this vulnerability, then I've won.
I can--
>> You're going to get a CVE score of 9 or above.
It's right there.
>> Yeah, exactly.
And that's for vulnerabilities.
That's just poorly written code or code with bugs.
But forget about vulnerabilities.
I mean, if you're an attacker, you're a threat actor,
you've already got the perfect means to run arbitrary code,
to gain arbitrary code execution on a developer system.
That's with third-party dependencies.
Open source software is just the perfect target
for writing malware or shipping malware into packages.
Now, when people hear this, we've talked about it enough.
It actually came as quite a surprise a few years ago.
People theoretically knew that it could happen,
but that it was happening is that packages on package stores
like PyPI and NPM and so on got published vulnerabilities
that people could then install and make part of theirs.
But there's a whole software supply chain, right?
Maybe talk us through some of the different elements that
make that up.
Only one of which is these libraries, right?
>> That's right.
So the software supply chain is using third-party code
securely, as well as securing the end-to-end development
process.
So that process is very broadly broken into three phases.
You've got the source phase.
That's source control management systems,
and then actually coding, developers
coding on their systems, committing to repositories.
>> Yeah, you mentioned the dependencies like pip install
this or that.
There's also, for many of the really popular IDs and editors,
there's a whole massive array of varying levels of trusted
plugins or extensions as well.
>> That's right.
Yeah, like Visual Studio Code, that's what I use for my IDE.
It's got an extensive extension ecosystem.
Just about anything you want to do,
I get a little pop-up when I open a new project and it says,
oh, I recognize you're using a YAML file.
Do you want to download this extension that
will lint YAML files?
>> Yeah, I got one for CVEs.
It was like rainbow CSV syntax highlighters.
You know what?
That's not really made by a trusted company.
It's probably fine.
But I don't need my CSV files highlighted so much so
that I'm willing to just run arbitrary code
from a stranger on the internet.
>> That's right.
>> Right?
And I use both PyCharm and VS Code.
And they both, especially PyCharm,
has a warning that says, this is untrusted.
It's a third-party thing.
Are you sure you want it?
But that's a pretty light warning.
Also, they're not the same, right?
Is it installed by a million people, used every day?
Or is it for you, the fourth person to use it?
And it hasn't had the experience of people going,
why is it opening a network socket?
What's it doing?
Something like that.
>> Yeah, that's another entry point
you got to be careful about.
>> All right, well, I cut you off.
We're only in square one of maybe nine.
>> Yeah, square one, source code,
and then there's the build phase.
That's where you take the code, you
take the commits that have gone into source control,
and you build something with it.
This usually happens in your CI/CD systems,
your GitHubs and GitLabs of the world.
And it's at that point where your third-party dependencies
get included and wrapped up into your artifacts,
which brings us to the third stage of the software supply
chain, which is the package and deploy phase.
That's where you're creating your artifacts
and making them available to the world to use.
>> Could be anything.
Could be a wheel for a library that other parts of your company
use to build software.
>> Yeah, wheels.
>> Some app you ship.
It could actually be a website, an API, who knows, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Docker container.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> And then by the time you get to that,
the end of the supply chain and the packaged product
that people are going to see and use and work with,
you've baked in so many elements at that point,
from your third-party dependencies
to any other external resources that
are getting called.
So there's lots of points along the way that it's possible to--
>> One of the things that can be sneaky
is it doesn't happen that often in Python,
but if you're shipping a Windows or a Mac app,
there's a digital signature roof of,
we're going to sign this with our trusted certificate.
So it doesn't even give you any warnings.
Like, look, it's signed by the company.
It is trusted.
Here you go.
Take it, right?
And somewhere upstream from that,
there's an issue, like with packages or other things.
Well, that issue is now--
that problem is signed and verified as well.
>> Yeah, yeah.
You know, so you mentioned code signing.
The research team at our company,
I mean, they're an amazing, amazing group there.
They're always finding new and novel attacks.
And one they found just this past week
involves something kind of cool, where the attacker had bundled
up a valid Microsoft binary.
It had been signed by Microsoft, but they bundled it
with a DLL that was malicious.
It was named something to be expected, right?
So when you run the executable on the binary,
you could see that there's this Microsoft signs application
looking for permissions, looking to continue.
And you think, oh, yeah, great, signed by Microsoft,
no problem.
But then it uses this technique called DLL search order
hijacking.
That technique, right?
So if you have a DLL that's being called by the application
more locally than not, that's what's going to be called.
>> I see, so it's looking for something in like--
>> Yeah.
It'll look like they're looking for the name of the DLL
in the same directory first, basically, is what's happening.
>> Right, right.
>> And they had shipped their bad DLL with the good binary.
>> So you pick something in system 32 that's
got a real common name, like vc runtime whatever dot DLL,
some of the standard ones.
But then you completely reprogram it.
>> Yeah.
>> And stick it in there with that app.
Or maybe not completely, because you need the app to not crash.
But you give it some extra boost when it does something, right?
>> Yeah.
Yeah, in this case, they had just
copied all the files needed for execution
into a new directory, including the known good binary,
the known bad DLL.
And then it had everything it needed in that directory to run.
And it looked like it was legitimate.
>> Right, because a lot of the OS--
a lot of these OS checks are on the executable, not the system
libraries that they use, right?
>> Right.
>> Right, right.
You'll see-- like this executable
is downloaded from the internet to show you want to run it.
That doesn't say-- this executable, which you trust,
is maybe possibly using a library that you downloaded.
It doesn't say that, right?
>> Right, right.
>> Yeah, because we could never get work done if it's
that level of checking all over the place.
This is an updated somewhere.
All right, so that's kind of the space
that we're talking about, right?
We've got editors.
We've got libraries that you use, CI/CD pipelines.
Containers are super interesting as well, and all the tools
to go with those.
So let's talk through some of the posts
that you've written and also just selected
about some of these things, maybe starting
to the front of that list there with lock files.
>> Yeah, OK, so yes, I wrote a blog post.
I guess it's looking at the date on your screen.
Looks like it was over a year ago now.
>> And probably seems like yesterday, but--
>> Yeah, that's right.
>> --2022 it was.
>> So I'm sure the landscape has changed since then a bit,
and maybe there's some new players out there.
But yeah, I think one thing you can do as a developer,
a big one I would recommend is use lock files
for your dependencies, right?
And what's a lock file?
Well, it's the fully resolved set
of dependencies that are used by your application, your package.
And if nothing else, you should know what's
going into your code, right?
>> Right.
Well, one of the ways this helps--
yeah, exactly.
That's a bit of a challenge, right?
And I think I'll admit, when I first got into Python,
I didn't do this that well.
And to me, it felt like probably the biggest issue I might run
into is instability in my app, right?
Like, for example, if I don't pin a dependency,
some new thing comes out, I reinstall it on a new computer,
maybe it gets an upgraded version,
and there's some library that doesn't work, right?
I mean, there's been certainly popular libraries that
just said, we're having a major version change,
and we're fixing the mistakes we made 10 years ago,
and these three functions are changing, or whatever, right?
That would break it.
But it could also be there's now a malicious version
of library x, and that's version 2.
But if you pinned it on version 1, even though it's bad,
you're still not getting the bad one, at least for a while,
right?
>> Absolutely, yes.
So I think-- I got to look it up.
I always forget.
PEP 665.
>> OK.
>> Yeah, PEP 665.
It's a rejected PEP, unfortunately,
but it was written by Brett Cannon and some others.
I know you've had Brett on the show a number of times.
I love the stuff he does.
He really understands all this.
>> Yeah, he does excellent work.
>> And it's kind of a shame this was rejected,
but this PEP tried to create a standard lock file
format for Python.
And if you look into the PEP a little bit,
there's some motivation about why you'd want to do this.
And four big reasons.
And the third one is one I really
key on, which is that lock files allow for reproducibility.
And reproducibility is just more secure.
Because when-- I'm quoting here from the PEP.
It says, "When you control exactly what files
are installed, you can make sure no malicious actor is
attempting to slip nefarious code into your application,
i.e.
some supply chain attacks.
By using a lock file, which always
leads to reproducible installs, we
can avoid certain risks entirely."
And I mean, that's the name of the game.
That's what our company focuses on,
which is avoiding those risks by ensuring you know which
dependencies you're using and you're knowing that those
dependencies are benign or good, doing no harm.
>> Even if there is something that happens,
usually it's going to happen to a popular library
because you're using it.
Hence, probably other people are using it
other than typosquatty, which we can talk about.
But if you pin your dependencies,
chances are these things only stick around
for a little while.
It's not like, oh, they discovered it.
It had been there for eight months.
It's like, oh my gosh, we heard about it.
A few people got it, and then we got rid of it, right?
>> Yes.
>> Because folks at PyPA are pretty excellent.
So it's, to some degree, a timing issue as well.
>> Yes.
Vulnerabilities are different, right?
That's what a lot of people focus on.
A lot of the tooling exists to discover vulnerabilities
in your dependencies, which is good to know about those.
But those exist for a long time, right?
You have CVEs for known vulnerabilities,
and they end up in these databases.
And they're there for years.
And if you're using old dependencies
or maybe transitive dependencies are using old ones
and you're stuck on it, then you're
going to be exposed to those vulnerabilities.
But what's different about--
>> Examples-- sorry, examples of those
include the WebP library not too long ago, right?
That was baked into Python.
And then also OpenSSL, right?
So people discovered issues in those.
Those are baked into different aspects of Python
or some of the libraries.
And it's like, well, all of a sudden,
there's this fire drill, which is
different than somebody going, I'm
going to sneak a thing into the library system.
>> Right.
>> And then it is a timing matter.
So malicious dependencies, that's a whole other story.
Because if a malicious package is discovered,
there's not a CVE created for it.
The package is just taken off of the registry.
You report it to the good people at PyPI,
and they'll review the submission and take it down.
I've done a few of those myself.
And they're really fast.
But there's still a window of time
where that malicious package, that malicious dependency
is up and available.
And that's--
>> Yeah.
I do think pinning your dependency--
>> --often all that's pinned.
>> Yeah, exactly.
I do think having a pinned dependency there is worthwhile.
Because if you make a commit, your CI runs, et cetera, et
cetera, right?
The chances that you just bump the version
to this malicious thing is pretty low.
>> Yeah, exactly.
So yeah.
Yeah, and having version ranges is not enough.
You need to have explicit versions.
>> All right, let's talk more about these lock files then.
>> Yes.
>> So there's actually a bunch of choices these days.
And Brett's PEP tried to make it less of a choice,
say, well, it doesn't matter if you use Hatch or pip or Poetry
or whatever.
The outcome is the same.
And for reasons that I haven't learned enough about,
I don't know why that didn't work.
But let's talk about what's out there now.
Because there's a couple options at this point.
>> Sure.
I think the-- yeah.
So most Python developers are going
to be most familiar with Pip, right?
That's the standard.
And pip has requirements files.
And they're unique in the lock file world.
Because they can be named anything, right?
Most other lock files have a defined name.
We're talking about Rust earlier.
They're the gold standard for a lot of this stuff.
And they're very clear.
They have cargo.lock.
That's their lock file.
You can't name it anything else.
Its contents are well-defined.
It is what it is.
But in Python with Pip, I mean, you
could name it whatever you want.
Dev requirements.txt.
You could name it cargo.lock.
But it could contain Python dependencies in it.
>> Surprise.
I'm not Rust.
Basically, you can just put more or less arbitrary commands
that are sent to pip into any text file, right?
Which is more or less what it is.
>> Yeah.
Yep.
Any command line option you can feed the Pip,
you can put in a requirements file.
>> It's cool because you can import by saying
-r some other file.
>> Yes.
>> But it's also not super structured.
>> The hierarchy that way.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
>> So there are some tools available to turn
those loose requirements files, the pip requirements
files, into strict lock files, right?
Where every entry is pinned to a specific version.
And pip itself can do it with the pip freeze command.
So that's the one most people know about.
But that one's kind of not so great
because it only freezes the packages for the environment
that you ran pip freeze in.
Maybe you're trying to publish your lock file for users
of a different platform or system.
>> The other thing that I don't like about it
is you want to put just the things you actually
use into your requirements file.
Like, I'm using HTTPX and Pydantic.
That's it.
But what it really installs when you run that
is the transitive closure of all those things, which is fine.
But you're not necessarily expressing that
with just your requirements.txt, right?
>> Right.
Yeah.
Your two packages could balloon to 100 dependencies.
And that's not uncommon.
It's not even that bad.
Like, in the JavaScript ecosystem,
the same handful of top-level dependencies
could have two orders of magnitude explosion,
where you end up with 1,000.
>> Oh, gosh.
I can't find it.
You know what?
I think I put it on the Python bytes.
But there's a really funny--
I want to be able to pull this up for people
so they can find it.
There's a funny, funny thing that somebody did--
well, for some definition of funny.
They put somebody created an npm package called everything.
And so there's an article called,
"When Everything Becomes Too Much,
the npm package chaos of 2024."
An npm user named PatrickJS launched a troll campaign
with a package called everything,
which depends on every package in npm.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
I think it's the-- npm's the largest package registry
out there.
So it's already massive.
I remember your early episodes, you
would recount how many packages were on PyPI.
And then we got to that--
>> I don't even know.
Are we past half a million?
>> Well, yeah.
I remember it was a big deal.
We got up to 100,000.
And now it's, what, 400,000?
500,000?
>> Look at that.
508,509 by rounding.
Yeah.
Half a million.
Congratulations, world.
Amazing.
I just added two new ones last week.
So I guess I made a huge difference in that number.
>> Nice.
>> Yeah.
So basically, PyPI is awesome.
And it does a bunch of great stuff.
And one of the things I really like about working with PyP
is I don't need to teach people anything if they
want to work with my project.
I don't need to teach them, like, oh, I know you love poetry.
But I'm using a combination of the Hatch build back end
with PDM.
You're like, what?
I don't even know what those are.
There's a lot of ways in which you
work that are brought in with a lot of these tools here.
So PyPI is kind of like--
it just kind of works, right?
>> Yes.
>> But having this transitive closure managed
is not part of what it does.
But it's super important, because if I
need to upgrade something, I can't just
change my version number in my requirements,
because that doesn't affect its dependency possibly, right?
Like, it depends on what it said.
So I'm a huge fan of PyPI tools.
This is actually what I do most of the time.
>> Yes, PyPI tools is another one.
You can-- it's great, I think.
It has this pip compile command that
will take as an input, I think, just about any Python manifest
type that's out there.
So you can do setup.py, requirements.txt.
I'm forgetting the other ones.
>> The pipenv.lock, maybe.
setup.cfg, pyproject.toml.
It just recognizes all the different ways
people could express their loose requirements, the manifest
files.
Yeah, so--
>> Yeah, I really like it.
And you can say pip compile upgrade,
and it'll look at all the dependencies
and upgrade them all as high as they can go.
But what's nice about that is, if you're working for a while,
then you choose, like, well, let me just
do a refresh on the dependencies right now
and repin them and see how that works,
and then just carry on with your business for a while, right?
And it'll manage that transitive closure as well with, like--
actually, a really nice lock file where it describes, like,
these are all the things in the lock file.
And the reason that, for example, in your blog post
you say they're certified, this version,
and it's there because you asked for it
and because request needs it.
If you're like, why is this in my virtual environment?
Why do I have this weird thing that I don't know?
It'll tell you, here's why it's there.
>>Yeah.
Yeah, one of the downsides, though--
I think pip-tools has this issue.
I know pip does-- is that in determining
that transitive dependency resolution,
it is very possible-- in fact, it usually
happens that you have arbitrary code execution on your system.
Like, if you start with the two top-level dependencies,
like you mentioned, and it lists dependencies, well,
then it'll pull those in, and it acquires the metadata
from the wheel if that exists.
But if it doesn't, it'll build a package just
to get the metadata file just to figure out
which dependencies that needs.
>>Are you saying I should set up a Docker container
to execute this?
>>That's-- yeah, that's kind of what's happening.
>>Maybe I should, yeah.
>>And yeah, running in a sandbox is another option, right?
Where that's what my company, Phylum,
that's one of the solutions we offer.
We have extensions for our CLI where
you can wrap pip by just calling Phylum pip,
and then everything runs in the sandbox.
So that's another solution.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Because I mean, pip is a funny one,
because they even have a command line option called
dry run, tactac dry run, which you would think,
oh, nothing's going to happen on my system.
It's just--
>>Except for running code from strangers on the internet
at that point.
>>But it does, yes.
Dry run, even using dry run for pip install and pip download
commands will or has the possibility of downloading
and running arbitrary code from strangers on the internet.
>>If we had-- wheels came along far after Pip, right?
And we've got the source distributions and setup.py
and all that kind of stuff.
And so if wheels existed from day one,
it very well may be the case that this is not a problem,
right?
But what is pip supposed to do?
It has to evaluate this dynamic thing
to figure out what it wants.
>>Yes, yes, yeah.
Wheels are great, because they have a metadata file in there
that clearly lays out what the dependencies are.
And there's no arbitrary code running when you install a
wheel.
It's just extracting and copying.
A wheel is just a zip file.
You extract that zip file and then copy the contents
to various locations.
But yes, as you said, because we've
had source distributions, tarballs, and then even eggs
before that, and probably never going
to fully get rid of those, it just
takes one, one dependency anywhere in your chain
that is only distributed as a source distribution
before now you're downloading and building a package just
to get metadata to continue.
>>Yeah, and maybe you didn't actually choose it, right?
It's the dependency of a dependency of a dependency.
>>Absolutely, yeah.
Yeah, that's-- yeah, yeah.
People often respond to some of the findings
our company has where we'll post these malicious packages
with all sorts of crazy names.
And people will respond to say, why would I install that?
Why would I ever install this random package
that no one's heard of?
It's like, well, you wouldn't.
But it could be included in the transit dependencies, right?
If it gets added to a slightly more legitimate package
or worked up the chain that way, then yes, eventually, you'll
be running it unknowingly.
>>Yeah, I think there's two important things we should
talk about this before we move on,
because there are some interesting ways in which you
might unknowingly-- you might even
try to do the right thing, and you might actually
shoot yourself in the foot by doing so.
So number one, these super strict lock files
are awesome when you're building an application.
I want to ship TalkBython training out.
It's got its strict APIs.
It runs on this version.
It uses that version of Pydanic, that version of Beanie,
and whatever.
I want that to be fixed, fixed, zero flexibility,
until I decide, through maybe a pip compile update or whatever,
that I want a new one.
However, if I was building a library that someone else was
using, I would do them many headaches and a disservice
to say, I depend on Pydanic 2.7.0.
You're like, but my other library needs Pydanic 8, 2.8,
and I can't use it and your library together, right?
So you need the-- it's a different story
when you're building a library that others are going to consume
than it is when you're building an application.
And there was some disagreement, I guess,
about the recommendation of pipenv for a while.
And it's because I believe that pipenv is really
focused on the application side.
And I don't think it was made super clear
that maybe it doesn't make as much sense for libraries,
right?
So do you want to speak to that a little?
Yeah.
I'm an advocate for lock files for everyone, applications
for sure, but also libraries and their developers, right?
Because when you distribute a library,
sure, loose dependencies is probably the way to go there.
But library developers, people who
want to contribute to your projects, the developers
themselves, maybe you work on a team,
having a lock file alongside your library
is still going to be useful, right?
Yeah, because that way you can say everyone,
if somebody makes a change or they report a bug or whatever,
they're not bringing in a change from a different version
of a dependency, or maybe something changed, right?
Yes, yes.
Yeah.
And then plus it still allows you
to start from a known good spot.
And then maybe if you know you want to get the latest,
then you can do it in a controlled environment,
like a sandbox or maybe on CI in a throwaway runner that
has no access to any secrets or sensitive--
That's interesting.
I hadn't really thought about having a specific requirements
lock file type of thing for the libraries
that I've been working on for the developers, right?
For people who want to contribute,
because it's just been like a loose requirement
so that people that built against it
aren't pinned into some very specific thing.
But yeah, that makes a lot of sense, I think.
Yeah.
There's a link in that blog post.
It's kind of dated now, but it's from the folks
who built Yarn, the JavaScripting system.
But they say it a lot more eloquently than I can.
Yeah, that's the one.
Lock files should be committed.
On all projects, yeah.
I mean, it's a bit old now, but they go down the lists
and spell it out a lot more clearly than me
and I think that's kind of why libraries even
can benefit from publishing a lock file.
Yeah, people can check that out.
That's cool.
Yeah, and that's the JavaScript package manager.
So in JavaScript years, like 100 years,
or something that's been a couple years.
That's right.
You got dog years, you got JavaScript years.
JavaScript years just tick by like the second hand.
Yeah, yeah.
All right, cool.
So I see we're making great progress to our list of things
to talk about here.
Like 15 left, we'll have plenty of time.
[LAUGHTER]
So yeah, let's see.
So another one, another PEP I think we're talking about here
is 5.1.7, a build system independent format
for source trees.
I have no idea what this is.
What is this?
Yeah, PEP 5.17 and 5.18 kind of go together.
This was like the transition away from setup.py
towards pyproject.toml.
5.18 is the one that specifies pyproject.toml,
kind of things that go in it.
And then 5.17 is all about build systems and build back ends.
So like in your pyproject.toml and your build system key,
you'll often see things like Poetry Core, or Flit,
or Hatchling, or these kinds of things.
And so PEP 5.17 is specifying what
it means to be one of those build back ends.
It's really just defining two mandatory hooks.
What does it mean to build wheel and build sdist?
There's three optional hooks as well.
And I think there's even another PEP that followed on from this
that talks about building editable packages.
Right, the -e equivalence.
Yeah, exactly.
But really, it just boils down to defining a way
to build a wheel and build a source distribution.
Yeah, and this is part of what opened up
all the different choices we now have for package management
and things like that, right?
Because now there's a common way they can all work together.
A little bit like WSGI.
Yes.
Yeah, I've been using Hatchling for my build back end
recently, and it's been working real nicely.
OK.
Yeah, I was just looking at Hatchling the other day,
and they've got--
yeah, they're one of the build back ends
that offers build hooks.
Prior to PyProject.toml and wheels and bdus wheels,
and you go back to the source distributions
and your setup.py files, where it's just Python code.
You can be doing anything in your setup.py file, which
runs when you install the package.
Well, now we're starting to see methods
to do the same thing in these more modern packaging
and build back ends.
So Hatch has their build hooks, build system hooks,
where you can point it to, I think, yeah, just Python code
and have it run as part of the build.
Yeah, at least it only runs at build time, not install time.
Right?
Yeah, I'm looking at the documentation now.
Yeah, this is still new to me, but there
might be hooks for install as well.
OK.
While you're thinking about it, one of the things--
I got a couple of questions I want
to highlight from the audience here.
But also, one of the things that I think maybe was considered--
I have no awareness of this, but if it wasn't,
would be excellent-- is what if the people at PIP
just pre-computed all that metadata from--
at least for the common platforms--
that you would get that pip needs to download, run
setup.py, and then throw it away just to get that data?
Like for Mac, Windows, and Linux,
if it would just go, OK, we're just going to--
as you upload it, it would just kick off
a job that does that on those three platforms
and puts it in a JSON blob.
It seems like that would be worthwhile.
I'm fairly certain there's discussions already
around that type of a solution and maybe even
a PEP for proposal for it.
But yeah, getting away from having to build a package just
to get metadata--
Yeah.
You got packages that are downloaded billions of times
with a B. It's insane.
And if somebody could do that three times instead
of a billion times, it would make it work faster,
and it would also make it safe.
I think it'd be great.
All right, a couple of questions here.
This one.
So Tony on the audience says, "PIP compiles
great for finding your transitive dependencies.
One interesting thing that they've done
is package up code with Pants Build,
which supports locks files, just to look through what
code gets packaged up.
Is this anything you've explored?
I've heard of Pants.
I haven't looked into it myself yet.
OK, yeah.
So just use it like, OK, you're going
to have to build this thing and give me a little manifest
and whatnot, and then we can just look at that.
That's cool.
And then Tamir says, "Do you have
a solution for taking already locked dependencies with you
when you start a new app?"
I'm guessing maybe-- yeah, I don't know.
I guess maybe you've already got a project you're working on,
and you want to say, I want this project to use that.
Probably you could just copy the lock file, right?
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, really, if you start a new project or new application,
you're going to have new manifest file.
PyProject.toml, maybe you have the same dependencies,
the top level dependencies or not.
But the fully resolved set of dependencies
that makes up your lock file, that
can very easily be different.
I'm not exactly sure how you just
port over one to another.
One more bit from Tony.
This is something that I now remember from Pan.
It says, "If it just looks through your code,
and if you use the import statement,
regardless of whether you put it in your requirements files,
it'll figure out what your requirements
file should have been if you were a bad developer."
Basically.
That's kind of cool, just to see what it uses.
Yeah.
Nice, all right.
On to the next thing.
Specifying PEP 518, specifying minimum build system
requirements for Python projects.
Yeah, this is PyProject.toml.
This is the PEP for that.
There's not much to it, other than to say
that they've settled on that name,
rejected a bunch of other possibilities.
And then they've got the few entries
that are required for defining your build system.
Excellent.
Yeah, you don't have to have a PyProject.toml for Python.
But if you're building a Python library,
and you don't want to use setup.py,
then you're much better off having a PyProject.toml,
right?
Yes.
Yeah, yeah.
It's more on the library side that it--
I mean, it's not that you can't use it on an application,
but it's more required on the library side.
Yeah.
That's the thing.
All right, so let's talk about some
of the ways in which your packages might go wrong.
We've already talked about typosquatting.
We also talked about everything that's different.
Yeah.
But typosquatting is tricky.
I think it's pretty well understood at this point.
But maybe just tell people real quick
to cover that base, you know?
Sure.
Typosquatting is publishing a package
with a name that's similar, but not the same as an existing
known good package, right?
So instead of requests, maybe you get request without the S.
Or one that gets me, because I make the typo all the time,
is the cryptography package.
Like if I put you on the spot, would you
know how to spell cryptography right away?
I always get the first couple of letters jumbled up a bit.
And there have been malicious packages published and then
taken down with the spelled C-R-P-Y instead of C-R-Y-P.
Cryptography, right?
Yeah.
But the idea is that you can overlook a package,
because it looks like a good one.
It's not necessarily that you're going to install it
because you type it wrong.
Although that is one technique, right?
The drive-by installs, where someone just
fat fingers the package name.
But really, having a typosquatted package
is going to allow these threat actors to be
a little more stealthy in their inclusion of that package
in legitimate code reviews and commits
and dependencies of dependencies, right?
And so the other thing that goes with typosquatting--
I don't know if I had a link for you there yet--
is starjacking.
So a lot of times, if you're going
to typosquat on a known good package-- OK, there it is.
These threat actors, they just straight up
copy the known good project, right?
Just clone the repository and then change the package name.
And then when they post the package to PyPI,
for instance, the metadata that goes with the package
still exists, right?
So on PyPI, for a given package, you
can see on the left-hand side, it shows some statistics.
If the URL was given to a GitHub-hosted project,
for instance, it'll go in there and tell you how many stars.
>>Nick: Right, right, right.
That's actually a signal that it seems like it should be good,
right?
It'll have--
>>Mark: Yeah.
That's what starjacking is doing,
is just copying the metadata of a known good package
so that on first look--
yeah, there you go.
You can see--
>>Nick: I did pull up pytest, and it says statistics.
GitHub statistics, 11,000 stars, 2,000 forks.
OK, this is legit.
Let's install it.
>>Mark: Right.
So I could go clone pytest repository right now,
change the name to pytest spelled P-I-T-E-S-T,
and then push that to PyPI.
>>Nick: The math version of testing, yeah.
>>Mark: And you're going to get these same statistics,
and you're going to get the same maintainers that you see
if you scroll down a little bit in the metadata.
Yeah, so you get the maintainers list.
All of that metadata that you enter in your pyproject.toml
or setup.py file gets read here on PyPI and just published.
So you can fake people out by--
>>Nick: Yeah, that's actually really--
OK, well, there's a new terrifying thing
that I hadn't thought about.
>>Mark: Yeah, yeah.
So starjacking and typosquatting,
where you just take a known good package, clone it,
and then maybe you make a change to existing function.
The function does what it's supposed to do,
but it also does some other stuff,
like ship off secrets from your CI server or--
>>Nick: Mm-hmm.
It could lay dormant and wait for some sort
of production environment and grab some SSH keys
or something terrible.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's the other--
>>Mark: Indeed.
>>Nick: --the other thing.
Dependency confusion.
OK, that's the next one you've got up.
>>Mark: Yeah, this is one we kind of talked--
similar to what we talked about before with--
I can't remember, but I said we're
going to come back to this.
So here it is again.
This is dependency confusion, where
if you get the wrong version or the wrong name,
it could actually-- you try to be safe by having
a whitelisted list.
>>Nick: Well, so this is one where
it's the same package name, different source of where
you acquire that package.
>>Mark: Yes.
>>Nick: So this is--
these attacks are mostly like companies, enterprises.
>>Mark: This is the enterprise attack.
>>Nick: Yeah, yeah.
So--
>>Mark: We're using artifactory, and we only
put our stuff there.
And we're going to call it like international company
underscore data access.
>>Nick: That's right.
And it's tricky, because if you don't know--
if you don't have your build system set up in a way,
and then your CI server set up in a way
to install your dependencies in the proper order,
like excluding public registries first
and only looking for packages in your private registry,
then it's very easy, especially with pip,
which defaults to looking on PyPI, the public registry,
first, and then only falling back to your extra index
URL specifications secondly.
That if someone had the knowledge or just guessed
at the package name that you had published
on your internal registry, and then they made their own package
with the same name, but put it on PIPI,
that's the one that's going to get installed.
And there was a whole series of bug bounties
that were claimed over this back a few years ago,
because people just went around guessing
at internal package names.
Or maybe they used to work there or knew people--
>>Dylan: Yeah, yeah.
I'll give you 100 bucks just to share your quorum
at sot.txt with me.
>>Nick: Right, right, right, right.
>>Dylan: You know, it's kind of--
it's extra sneaky, because it only affects people--
it only affects people who are going out of their way
to be more secure, right?
They're going out of their way to say,
we're only going to-- we're going to actually set up
a whole server, and we're going to whitelist a bunch of stuff.
You can only ask for the names of the things on this server.
>>Nick: Yes, yes.
And that might still work if you limit it
to your internal registry only, or a mirror, perhaps,
of the public registries.
What do you think about that?
It's pretty easy to create your own internal copy,
download a bunch of external ones,
and mirror them locally, and say,
these are the ones that are pre-approved at our company.
Nothing else.
>>Dylan: Yeah, yeah.
I've worked in an environment where
that's exactly what we did.
And I think there is merit to that.
You just have to know that anything
you're mirroring to the trusted internal network
is, in fact, secure.
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
I think it doesn't really make sense,
except for a few very rare cases to say you cannot
use external dependencies.
You're just saying, what we want is to not build software,
but while the rest of the world does.
Because that's part of the magic.
We just saw there's over half a million libraries
you can choose from.
When you say we have zero of those,
you're really, really constraining
the type of software and the velocity at which you can build.
>>Mark: Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it reminds me of that line,
like, why do you rob banks?
>>Dylan: Because they have the money?
>>Mark: Because that's where the money is, right?
It's like, well, why do attackers--
why are attackers going after open source software now?
It's like, well, that's where it's easiest
to get arbitrary code to run.
That's where developers are.
To be fair, though, it's not only--
it's not only, right, there's SolarWinds, which really
had almost nothing to do with open source,
but it had to do with CI/CD systems and other sneakiness,
right?
>>Dylan: Yeah, yeah.
>>Mark: Yeah, and got into places that, you know,
instead of getting into libraries,
you get into the build system.
And you just give it a little extra include tag there.
Bringing that DLL, like you said, right?
So dependency and confusion is sneaky,
because you're asking for a local version
off a local server.
It doesn't exist on PyPI.
But if it could be made to exist on PyPI, all of a sudden,
that gets installed.
Potentially, that's not good.
>>Dylan: Potentially, yeah.
Yeah, that's how it works in all the default cases.
And it's pretty tricky, actually, to exclude--
[LAUGHS]
--to do it in the correct order and exclude
those public registries.
>>Mark: Yeah, what I do to help this is I just
run the uuid command to get one of those 16-digit arbitrary hex
things.
And I just name all my libraries that.
And so it's like, oh, you have the F3DC.
That's the API one.
That's right.
Import that, right?
No one is going to do this.
It's such a safe space, I tell you.
[LAUGHS]
All right, on to the next one.
>>Dylan: Yeah, that would work.
>>Mark: Expired author domains.
This is super sneaky.
>>Dylan: Yeah, yeah.
So this is one--
it might be less of a factor now.
I think it was just earlier this month
that PyPI enforced two-factor authentication
for all their users.
But a lot of sites and even PyPI, I think, before this month
have password reset features, where
if you lose access to your account
or you forget your password, just send me an email.
Reset your password.
But it's very possible that people years ago submitted
a package.
They don't maintain it anymore.
They submitted it under an old email account
that has expired, right?
Maybe they--
>>Mark: They had some domain.
>>Dylan: Yeah.
It doesn't work that well for Gmail or Outlook.
>>Mark: Right, right.
Custom domain.
>>Dylan: If you had a custom domain,
as would be awesome, have your own Michael@talkpython.fm,
that kind of thing.
>>Mark: Yeah, yeah.
Say you win the lottery and--
>>Dylan: I'm out.
Beach time.
>>Mark: --put your page up.
Yeah, and then you let your domain expire.
And well, maybe there's still a linkage for the Talk Python
domain to PyPI.
And then I go and buy that domain.
And request password.
>>Dylan: Set up some server.
Yeah.
>>Mark: Account reset.
>>Dylan: Set up email.
>>Mark: Yeah, and then now I can publish new versions
of the packages there.
>>Dylan: Yeah, yeah, it's not good.
>>Mark: Yeah.
>>Dylan: Yeah, so I don't really know
what to do about that one.
But there's an amazing joke that I found on Mastodon.
Somebody posted-- see here.
It's two big red buttons.
Think Ren and Stimpy or whatever.
And one of the red buttons says, admit to yourself
that your dream is dead.
The other one says, pay $12 for domain renewal, right?
I mean, it's funny.
But there's plenty of people who will get a domain.
I'm going to totally go-- and then they're just like,
you know what?
I haven't done anything with that for like five years.
I'm not paying another $12.
But if they had set up an account under that,
this is what you're talking about.
Yeah.
>>Mark: Yeah, yeah, exactly.
That's why you got to buy your domains for that 100 year
renewal period.
>>Dylan: Exactly.
Take out that loan.
You get your domain.
[LAUGHTER]
All right.
We're getting short on time here.
Let's just go through.
I'll just list off a few real quick.
Maybe we do light and round, OK?
Unverifiable dependency.
>>Mark: OK, these are for specifying dependencies
that are not necessarily published to PyPI, right?
So that maybe you're pointing to a GitHub repository.
Pip calls these VCS project URLs,
if you look in their help output.
>>Dylan: Yeah, it's like pip installed Git plus HTTP
to a thing that has a PyPI project on it.
>>Mark: Yeah, exactly.
And that thing, it can point to a repository.
Maybe it points to a tag.
Maybe it points to a branch.
None of that is stable, right?
The tag could change out from under you.
The code that's related to that tag
could change out from under you.
The code at the branch you're pointing to
could change while the name remains the same.
So those are risky for that reason, right?
If you're not pinning to a very specific version
or a very specific hash, if you're
going to point to a repository or a Git URL--
>>Dylan: Interesting.
>>Mark: Yeah, make sure it's true.
>>Dylan: I kind of feel a lot of times
like the hash is maybe a little bit redundant given
the immutability of PyPI.
But if you're pointing at something like this,
then maybe all of a sudden you really, really
do want that for sure.
OK.
Repo jacking?
>>Mark: Yeah, this is similar to the expired author domain.
So if someone was pointing to one of those Git dependencies,
a VCS project URL, as pip calls it,
and that account went dormant or expired, relinquished,
whatever, and someone else took it over, then yeah,
they can now change--
>>Dylan: What's there, yeah.
>>Mark: Yeah, exactly.
A lot of people are requiring.
>>Dylan: All right.
And then maybe last bit, get a chance
to talk a bit about your Phylum CI project.
I do want to point out really quick, though, that Phylum
was a sponsor of the show a while ago.
But this is not a sponsored episode.
This is just-- you and I had been talking prior to that,
actually, and decided to put this show together.
So just to be clear, but let's talk about this project
you guys got anyway.
>>Mark: Yeah, yeah.
So you can pip install Phylum right now,
or like I prefer, pipx, pipx install Phylum.
>>Dylan: Yeah, I love pipx.
It's awesome.
>>Mark: Yeah, me too.
Yeah.
I think I heard about it from you, actually.
>>Dylan: So the circle goes.
>>Mark: Yes, yes.
So this package, it does two main things.
One is it exposes two entry points.
One of them is called Phylum init.
And that'll get you the Phylum command line
interface written in Rust, but installed with Python.
It'll get you the Phylum CLI locally.
And then the other one is called Phylum CI.
That's just a catch-all entry point,
the thing that gets exposed through our Docker container
to handle almost all of our integrations.
So if you want to monitor your PRs on GitHub, for instance,
we've got an integration for that.
>>Dylan: So the idea is basically
that I could set this up in GitHub.
A PR comes in, I could set up an action.
Phylum will scan it for known mischievousness.
>>Mark: That's right.
>>Dylan: And make that part of the PR,
maybe even block it out, right?
>>Mark: Yeah, exactly.
It'll fail your build if you don't pass your default policy
or established policy on any of your given
lock files or manifests.
We deal with manifests as well.
And you mentioned GitHub.
So even with GitHub, we went a step further.
We have an app as well.
So you don't even have to modify a workflow.
You could just install a GitHub app
and automatically monitor your repositories.
But a lot of the other ecosystems don't have that.
So we just provide Docker containers.
>>Dylan: I love the Docker container.
So you use Docker run against your code or whatever.
So--
>>Mark: Yeah.
And then there's even a pre-commit hook we expose as well.
>>Dylan: That is nice.
>>Mark: So you can--
>>Dylan: Nice.
I genuinely don't know the answer to this question.
Does this cost money?
>>Mark: No.
We have-- anyone can sign up for free.
There's a community edition where you
can have up to five projects.
>>Dylan: OK, cool.
You guys have to eat there.
It must be some way you charge for--
>>Mark: Oh, exactly.
Yeah, yeah.
So there's the paid version, which unlimited projects.
You get access to group-based management.
There's a few extra features.
It's a freemium model.
>>Dylan: More of a Teams, enterprise-y angle.
>>Mark: Yeah, yeah.
For this audience, I would love if everyone just
went that little extra step of securing
their open source software and go with the free option.
I'm not trying to sell you anything here.
Just monitor your manifest, your lock files.
Make sure that you remain secure.
You're not exposing your secrets.
Because that's what we're finding now,
is that developers are the new high-value targets.
That's what attackers want to go after,
because we know that developers, they have the secrets.
They've got the keys.
>>Dylan: We write the code that then
gets run on the production server inside the firewalls.
>>Mark: Yeah, yeah.
We have all the access, all the secrets, all the keys.
So if you can find a way to get arbitrary code from strangers
to run on developer systems, you're
going to have a much better chance of--
>>Dylan: We have a good time.
>>Mark: We have a good time.
By that, I mean having a bad time.
>>Dylan: Right.
>>Mark: Yeah.
Doing bad things.
OK.
Let's not do that.
Awesome.
Well, excellent work.
I think probably we'll just leave it there.
We're pretty much out of time for the rest of the stuff.
But close it out for us, Charlie.
People maybe both have a few new tools to work with,
but also techniques, but maybe also a little freaked out.
What do you tell them?
>>Charlie: I recommend everyone to restrict
their use of dependencies to lock files.
And then carefully gate or guard the inclusion of new lock
files or updates of existing ones--
or sorry, dependencies in those lock files
with careful analysis.
Don't allow arbitrary code to run anywhere
in your development process.
And give filing a try.
We've got the free Community Edition.
We will provide that analysis and ensure
that you don't have malware running on your system
through bad dependencies.
>>Dylan: Awesome.
All right, well, it's been very interesting
and a lot of new things to think about.
So thanks for being here.
>>Charlie: Thank you, Michael.
>>Dylan: Yeah, see you later.
>>Charlie: Bye.